{
{Data Center Infrastructure Costs } :
{When discussing data center infrastructure costs, costs for renting or rebuilding a space for data center, cooling, 
adequate power supply, uninterruptible power supply (UPS), and safety equipment (such as IT-compatible fire alarm and 
extinguisher systems and early fire detection systems) need to be considered.  This cost does not apply when the 
infrastructure is in the cloud. },

{Operational Costs } :
{Electricity costs for power consumption to power servers, storage, networking, and cooling, need to be considered as 
operational costs. Also, regular maintenance and upgrade of hardware components need to be considered to ensure 
continuous operation.   In addition to hardware components, software maintenance, such as updates and patches for system 
software and firmware need to be considered. },

{Compliance Costs } :
{Compliance costs typically increase as the regulation around an industry increases. With the development of AI-based 
technologies, regulatory and legal challenges are emerging. The European Union, the United States, and several other 
countries are all working on regulating this technology. Global companies that have operations all over the world face 
higher compliance costs than a company operating solely in one location due to various legal requirements.   However, 
it is important to acknowledge that AI systems should also comply with current regulations and standards and meet 
ethical, security, and robustness requirements. },

{Downtime Costs } :
{While you could include downtime along with the operational costs, the downtime is often so large that it is recommended 
to have it in its own category. Downtime involves the costs of employees whose work is delayed and who address the issue, 
costs from lost production, and possibly lost customers from inability to meet time expectations. },

{Cloud versus On-Premises Costs } :
{When considering costs, there is an important distinction between cloud and on-premises infrastructure.  For cloud 
computing, you must take the following costs into the account:  Cloud service fees, in case you are using a cloud 
service provider. Scaling costs, which might be temporary based on the workload. Data transfer costs, in case you go 
over the subscribed data usage threshold.  For on-premises computing, the following costs need to be considered:  
Higher costs for setting up the infrastructure (hardware and data center infrastructure costs). Regular upgrade of 
hardware components to achieve cutting-edge performance if such are the requirements (includes servers, storage, 
networking, or individual components like GPUs). Resource utilization: Can all hardware be efficiently used compared 
to cloud computing where you only pay for the compute in use. },

{Training and Support Costs } :
{A percentage of the costs must also be associated with staff to use and manage the new technologies, including the 
training phases. This includes system administrators, software developers, data science engineers, and scientists. },

{Scalability Costs } :
{Scalability refers to enhancing a system’s capacity to manage an increased workload effectively. It is a long-term 
strategy. It involves either upgrading the capabilities of existing resources (scaling up) or incorporating additional 
resources to share the load (scaling out). Scaling up might include boosting memory, processing power, or storage 
within the current setup.  In the short term, you need to consider the following:  Elasticity: Defined as &quot;the 
degree to which a system is able to adapt to workload changes by provisioning and de-provisioning resources in an 
autonomic manner so that the available resources match the current demand as closely as possible.&quot; Such an 
example would be GPU partitioning when having multiple workloads that might not need all the compute that is 
currently available. Over-provisioning: It refers to the practice of allocating more than needed computing resources 
(such as CPU, memory, and storage) to a system or network, incurring unnecessary costs. Under-provisioning: It refers 
to the practice of allocating less computing resources to a system or network than needed, leading to reduced 
performance and possible downtime (out-of-memory exceptions, all storage consumed).  Based on your compute requirements 
and time constraints (for example, to train an AI model), these options need to be factored in. }
}